Hibernate Technical Interview Questions

1.What is Hibernate?
  Hibernate is an open source lightweight tool.

  It is one of the most popular Java framworks that simplofy the development of Java application to interact with the database.

  It is an Object-relational mapping (ORM) tool.

  It is referred as a framework which comes with an abstraction layer and also handles the implementations internally.

  The implementations include tasks like writing a query for CRUD operations or establishing a connection with the databases, etc.

2.What is ORM?
  It is basically a technique that maps the object that is stored in the database.

  An ORM tool helps in simplifying data creation, manipulation, and access.

  It internally uses the Java API to interact with the databases.

3. What are the major advantages of Hibernate Framework?
  It is open-sourced and lightweight.

  Performance of Hibernate is very fast.

  Helps in generating database independant queries.

  Provides facilities to automatically create a table.

  It provides query statistics and database status.

4. What are the advantages of using Hibernate over JDBC?

  Hibernate eliminates a lot of boiler-plate code that comes with JDBC API, the code looks cleaner and readable.

  This Java framework supports inheritance, associations, and collections. These features are actually not present in JDBC.

  HQL (Hibernate Query Language) is more object-oriented and close to Java. But for JDBC, you need to write native SQL queries.

  Hibernate implicitly provides transaction management whereas, in JDBC API, you need to write code for transaction management using commit and rollback.

  JDBC throws SQLException that is a checked exception, so you have to write a lot of try-catch block code. Hibernate wraps JDBC exceptions and throw JDBCException or HibernateException which are the unchecked exceptions, so you don’t have to write code to handle it has built-in transaction management which helps in removing the usage of try-catch blocks.

5. What is HQL?
  HQL is the acronym of Hibernate Query Language. It is an Object-Oriented Query Language and is independent of the database.

6.How to achieve mapping in Hibernate?
  Association mappings are one of the key features of Hibernate. It supports the same associations as the relational database model. They are:

  One-to-One associations
  Many-to-One associations
  Many-to-Many associations

7.Name some of the important interfaces of Hibernate framework?
  Hibernate interfaces are:

  SessionFactory (org.hibernate.SessionFactory)
  Session (org.hibernate.Session)
  Transaction (org.hibernate.Transaction)

8.What do you mean by Hibernate Configuration File?
  Hibernate Configuration File mainly contains database-specific configurations and are used to initialize SessionFactory.
  Some important parts of the Hibernate Configuration File are Dialect information, so that hibernate knows the database type and mapping file or class details.

9.What is JPA?
  Java Persistence API (JPA) is a Java specification that provides certain functionality and standard to ORM tools.
  The javax.persistence package contains the JPA classes and interfaces.

10.Elements of Hibernate Architecture
   For creating the first hibernate application, we must know the elements of Hibernate architecture. They are as follows:
   SessionFactory
   The SessionFactory is a factory of session and client of ConnectionProvider.
   It holds second level cache (optional) of data.
   The org.hibernate.SessionFactory interface provides factory method to get the object of Session.

   Session
   The session object provides an interface between the application and data stored in the database.
   It is a short-lived object and wraps the JDBC connection. It is factory of Transaction, Query and Criteria.
   It holds a first-level cache (mandatory) of data. The org.hibernate.Session interface provides methods to insert, update and delete the object.
   It also provides factory methods for Transaction, Query and Criteria.

   Transaction
   The transaction object specifies the atomic unit of work. It is optional.
   The org.hibernate.Transaction interface provides methods for transaction management.

   ConnectionProvider
   It is a factory of JDBC connections.
   It abstracts the application from DriverManager or DataSource. It is optional.

   TransactionFactory
   It is a factory of Transaction.
   It is optional.

11. Mention some important annotations used for Hibernate mapping?
   Hibernate supports JPA annotations. Some of the major annotations are:

   javax.persistence.Entity: This is used with model classes to specify they are entity beans.

   javax.persistence.Table: It is used with entity beans to define the corresponding table name in the database.

   javax.persistence.Access: Used to define the access type, field or property. The default value is field and if you want Hibernate to use the getter/setter methods then you need to set it to a property.

   javax.persistence.Id: Defines the primary key in the entity bean.

   javax.persistence.EmbeddedId: It defines a composite primary key in the entity bean.

   javax.persistence.Column: Helps in defining the column name in the database table.

   javax.persistence.GeneratedValue: It defines the strategy to be used for the generation of the primary key. It is also used in conjunction with javax.persistence.GenerationType enum.